Iterators are objects that have a next method. They are used to visit elements in a sequence. It is possible for the values in the sequence to be generated in a lazy manner.

The next method returns an object with value and/or done properties. It’s best to return a new object from each call to next because callers might cache the object that is returned and not examine its properties until later. When the end of the sequence is reached, the done property will be true. Otherwise, this property may be omitted since it will then be undefined, which is treated as false (return {value: some-value}). For infinite sequences, the done property never becomes true.

Whether or not the value property has meaning when the done property is true depends on the iterator. For most iterators, the value property is not used when the done property is true. The three language constructs that consume iterables - the for-of loop, spread operator, and destructuring - follow this convention. These are discussed in more detail later.

When the end of the sequence has been reached, the value property may be omitted (return {done: true}).

Iterables are objects that have a method whose name is the value of Symbol.iterator. This method returns an iterator object.

An object may be both an iterable and an iterator. When this is the case, the method with the name Symbol.iterator returns an iterator when (1) it is called on the object and (2) that same object has the next method required by iterators. Therefore, obj[Symbol.iterator].call(obj) === obj.

ITERABLE/ITERATOR EXAMPLE
The following example generates numbers in the Fibonacci sequence. The object referred to by the variable fibonacci is an iterable. The Symbol.iterator method returns an iterator. Use of the fibonacci variable is illustrated with a for-of loop. Note that this loop breaks out when a value greater than 100 is returned. This is necessary since the sequence is infinite.

https://objectcomputing.com/resources/publications/sett/javascript-iterators-and-generators